The boy cried
the boy is crying
John is crying

'the' goes before a noun (start of sentence)
sentences start with a noun or pronoun (subject)


'is' before verb for singular present tense
'are' before verb for plural present tense
'was' before verb for singular past tense
'were' before verb for plural past tense

verb is an action

Command:
open spotify
(starts with verb)

Request:
starts with a questionStarter
Who, What, Where, When, Why, How, define, 

Simple sentences:__
A simple sentence has only one clause:_

The children were laughing.
John wanted a bicycle.
[All] the {girls} are learning English.

Compound sentences:__
A compound sentence has two or more clauses:_

(We stayed behind) and (finished the job)
(We stayed behind) and (finished the job), then (we went home)

John shouted and everybody waved.
We looked everywhere but we couldn’t find him.
They are coming by car so they should be here soon.

The common coordinating conjunctions are:

and – but – or – nor – so – then – yet

Complex sentences:__
A complex sentence has a main clause and one or more adverbial clauses. Adverbial clauses usually come after the main clause:_

She had a difficult childhood {because} her father died when she was very young.

Some subordinate clauses can come in front of the main clause:_

Although a few snakes are dangerous, most of them are quite harmless
Most snakes are quite harmless, although a few are dangerous

A sentence can contain both subordinate and coordinate clauses:_

Although she has always lived in France, she speaks fluent English because her mother was American and her father was Nigerian

There are seven types of adverbial clauses:_

 	Common conjunctions
Contrast clauses	 although; though; even though; while;
Reason clauses	because; since; as
Place clauses	where; wherever; everywhere
Purpose clauses	so that; so; because + want
Result clauses	so that; so … that; such … that
Time clauses	when; before; after; since; while; as; as soon as; by the time; until
Conditional clauses	 if; unless; provided (that); as long as
